In this lesson, we are creating a widget that appears at the end of the game - Game Over widget.
And on this final screen, we will display a table of statistics for all players.
Let's start by adding a GameHUD widget.
Now it is quite simple for us. Copy the property with the widget class.
We name the property GameOverWidgetClass.
In BeginPlay, add it to the GameWidgets associative array. Change the key to ESTUMatchState :: GameOver.
And also replace the class with GameOverWidgetClass.
Later in the loop, it will be automatically created and added to the viewport.
We compile the project.
Let's add a GameOver blueprint widget. To do this, let's just copy the GamePause widget.
Press Ctrl + W and name the asset WBP_GameOver.
Let's delete the SizeBox with the button.
Also change the title to game over. The text can be aligned in the middle, let's do the same in GamePause.
I forgot to do this. Return to the GameOver widget. Compile. Since we made a copy of the
GamePause widget, its parent is STUPauseWidget. Temporarily change the parent to the base UserWidget class.
Next, you need to specify the game over class of the widget in the GameHUD.
In the GameData settings, we will specify the number of rounds = 2, the number of seconds of one round = 3
for a quick test of the GameOver widget. We launch. The first round is over.
The second ended. The game over widget was displayed. Let's now display all the statistics for the players on this screen.
To do this, we need an additional widget - this will be a line
with statistics for one player. In the game ower class of the widget, we will dynamically create the
required number of lines depending on the number of players.
We create a new widget.
Let's call it WBP_PlayerStatRow.
We open asset and start designing a line of statistics for one user.
Let's add a root UI element. This will be a vertical box.
Add a hotizontal box to the vertical box, which will directly
contain all the data for one player.
And additionally add spacer to the vertical box. It will add space between the lines.
Set the size for Spacer to Y = 10.
And set the vertical box to SizeToContent = true.
Let's start adding text boxes to the horizontal box.
The first field will be responsible for the player's name. Change the text to name.
The second field will display the number of kills committed by the player. Replace the text with kills.
The third field will store the number of player deaths. Change the text to deaths.
And the last field will display the team number. Enter the text team.
I missed. Team added to the vertical box, you need to add it to the horizontal box.
We will set a certain size for each text field. We frame each text box into a SIzeBox element.
For SIzeBox, which contains the username, we will override the width. Let's set the value to 400. We do the
same with every other field.
Make WidthOverride smaller, set 200. And you can also right-
align the text . For the deaths and team field, we do it by analogy with the kills field.
And the last moment - we will add an additional element
that will highlight our character.
Let's do this using the image element.
Add widgets to the tree. Let's set the color to blue.
We'll also change the transparency. Set alpha to 0.5
This element should be stretched along the entire length of the horizontal box and placed on a layer below.
The UI element that will help us do this is called overlay. Let's frame the horizontal box with this element.
Overlay allows you to group different UI elements in layers. Drag the image into overlay and thus
our picture and horizontal box appear in overlay. The picture is located on a layer below the horizontal box.
The line for stats for one player is ready. Return to the game over widget.
Open the user created tab and add
PlayerStatRow to this widget in the vertical box. This widget will also be used
as a title. We've added it now. Nothing will happen to it dynamically.
Let's add a spacer to separate this header from the overall results table. For Y, set the size = 10.
And now we need a
vertical box, which will contain the entire table. In this box, we will create statistical data dynamically.
In a few minutes, we will create a code that will add PlayerStatRow widgets
to this vertical box , depending on how many players we had in the match.
And as a result, we will have a final table.
By default, we can set Visibility to Hidden for our image.
We have prepared the visual part. We can move on to the code. Let's create two widgets. One will be the
base class for our statistics line, and the second for GameOver.
Go to the content browser.
In C ++, classes.
We create UserWidget.
The first one is called STUGameOverWidget.
We create the second widget.
We call it STUPlayerStatRowWidget.
Let's start STUPlayerStatRowWidget. Let's add a forward declaration of two UI classes. The first one is UImage.
This class is the base class of the picture. The second class is UTextBlock. This class is responsible for the text block.
In the protected section, create a property for each text block that we just created in the visual editor.
And a separate property for the image of the indicator of our character.
Let's create a public section and add a value setting function for each of the created elements.
For text blocks, we will use the FText type as a parameter.
For the picture, we need to make a setter that will set its visibility, so this function
will have one parameter with a boolean value type. Create a body for each function in a .cpp file.
Let's include header files with the TextBlock class and the Image class.
Let's go to the SetPlayerName function.
If the PlayerNameTextBlock pointer is null, then exit the function.
And if non-zero, then you need to set the value of the text. This is done using the
text block function called SetText. We pass the parameter of the Text function to it.
We write similar code for all text block setter functions.
In the SetPlayerIndicatorVisibility function, we need to call the SetVisibility function.
And depending on the Visible parameter, pass the ESlateVisibility value: Visible or Hidden
to the function .
There is no logic in this widget - only setting the values ​​of text fields
and the visibility of the indicator picture. Go to the game over header file for the widget.
Add #include "STUCoreTypes.h". We need it for the visibility of the ESTUMatchState type.
Add a forward declaration for the UVerticalBox class. This is a container class for all lines of player statistics.
In the public section, we declare the Initialize function. Add property VerticalBox to the protected section.
We name it PlayerStatBox. The next property will store a single line widget class,
on the basis of which we will create a table, that is, the STUPlayerStatRowWidgetClass class.
We create a private section.
We declare two functions in it. The first one is OnMatchStateChanged. The callback is familiar to us.
The second function is cosmetic. A statistics table will be created in it. We call it UpdatePlayersStat.
In the .cpp file, we create a body for each function.
Let's copy the code from GameHUD, where we subscribe to the OnMatchStateChanged delegate. We copy it
into our GameOverWidget, into the Initialize function. Changing classes.
We include the header file STUGameModeBase. We can immediately implement the OnMatchStateChanged function.
When the state of the game has changed to game over, we need to create a statistics table,
so we check if State == ESTUMatchState :: GameOver,
then in this case we call the UpdatePlayersStat function.
Let's include all the header files that are needed to implement the logic.
We include the header file STUPlayerState. From the PlayerState of the player we will directly take all the data.
Next, we need the STUPlayerStatRowWidget header file.
And the header file VerticalBox.
Let's go to our main function UpdatePlayersStat. First, we check the pointer to the world and the pointer to the PlayerStatBox,
if they are zero, then exit. Next, we create a loop to iterate over all the controllers.
In the loop, we get a pointer to the controller. Next, using the controller, we get a pointer to the PlayerState.
We create PlayerStatRowWidget. We go through all the controllers, get the PlayerState
and for each PlayerState we create our own statistics line widget.
Now we need to set all the text fields in PlayerStatRowWidget according to the data that is in PlayerState.
The first function we'll call SetPlayerName.
In PlayerState, in the base class there is a function called GetPlayerName,
that is, in PlayerState there is a variable that is responsible for the player's name. By default, this can
be an empty string for AI controllers, and playercontroller is usually set to the
name of your computer. We'll set our own names later. The GetPlayerName function
returns a string of type FString. We need to convert it to FText,
for this we can use the static FText function called FromString.
Next, we call a function that sets the text for the number of kills. The GetKillsNum function in PlayerState returns
an integer. We need to convert int32 to FText. You cannot do this directly,
but you can first convert int32 to FString, and then FString to FText.
The design turns out to be a little cumbersome.
Let's create a helper function in our STUUtils class that will convert from int32 to FText.
Let's go to the STUUtils class. We create a static function. The return type will be FText.
Let's call the function TextFromInt.
And we pass as a parameter an integer that needs to be converted to FText.
That is, our function will encapsulate double conversion.
And now we can use this function. The only thing you need to include is the appropriate include.
We call the TextFromInt function.
And pass it an integer, which is returned by the GetKillsNum function.
We do a similar procedure for the number of deaths.
And for the team number.
It remains to call the last function, which will set the visibility of the indicator picture.
As a parameter, we can pass the value returned by the IsPlayerController function of the controller.
That is, if the current controller is a custom one, then our indicator picture will be displayed.
Thus, we have created one line and now we need to add it to a vertical box
called PlayerStatBox. The function for adding a child element to a UI component
is called AddChild. We pass in it a pointer to the current widget line. One more thing:
we have created a vertical box in the visual editor and for the test we have already added
lines there manually. You can foresee this situation and at the very
beginning of the UpdatePlayersStat function, programmatically remove all child elements from the PlayerStatBox.
The function that can do this is called ClearChildren. This ensures that the vertical box is empty
before we dynamically start adding player statistics lines to it.
Let's also deal with player name. Let's go to the STUGameModeBase class. Into the CreateTeamsInfo function.
In the loop where we set the team ID and color, we can also set the player's name in PlayerState,
for this we call the SetPlayerName function, which is in the base PlayerState class
and, depending on the value returned by the IsPlayerController controller function, we
will pass "Player "or" Bot ".
Our bots will all be called the same - just "Bot", although you can create an additional
variable for the loop and use it to make unique names: "Bot1", "Bot2" and so on.
Or you can create a special function that will generate
different names, for example, from some array. Compile the code.
Let's start to finalize the interface. We need to change the parent class of the GameOver widget. Install STUGameOverWidget.
The console displayed information that we do not have a vertical box named PlayerStatBox. Our lowest vertical box
will be responsible for storing all lines of statistics, so we call it PlayerStatBox.
Next, go to the Graph tab on the right and in the details panel,
you need to specify the class for our PlayerStatRow widget, specify WBP_PlayerStatRow. Compile.
Go to the statistics line widget and also replace the parent class.
Now you need to change the names of all text blocks and the picture.
Compile the widget. There are no errors.
Let's check everything. Let's put only one round to test it even faster.
We start the game. We are waiting for the end. The table was displayed. We had four players and the player was highlighted.
Now imagine the following situation: there can be many more players.
Let's simulate this situation. Let's put the number of players, for example, 20. Let's start.
Game over. Our list looks terrible. It does not fit on the screen, that is, we can say
that our interface is broken. Let's fix this. Let's put PlayerStatBox into a special UI element
called ScrollBox. It masks content and adds a scrollbar.
By default, the vertical box has SizeToContent set to true, so if we run it now, we won't see any difference,
because the ScrollBox also stretched the vertical box, to correct this, we need to
explicitly set the height for the ScrollBox . To do this, frame it with a SizeBox and override a parameter
called MaxDesireHeight. Set the value to 300, so the maximum
possible height of the ScrollBox will be 300, regardless of the number of lines.
So game over. We have a ScrollBox and a slider. The mouse wheel also works.
The visual part can be slightly customized. Shadows that do not look very nice at the top and bottom,
also the scrollbar only appears when you hover over the slider - this also looks strange.
Go to the game over widget. Let's start by removing the shadows. In the style category of TopShadowBrush,
set the DrawAs parameter to None. We do the same for the BottomShadowBrush.
The next property to set is called AlwaysShowScrollBarTrack.
Set the value to true to always display the track on the scrollbar. Next, go to PlayerStatRow.
Let's add an extra Spacer that will slightly
separate the last text field from the ScrollBar.
Let's set the value on X = 50.
In GameOver, let's also increase the Spacer, which separates the header from the general table.
Set the value for Y = 40.
Check.
Everything looks much nicer.
The very last moment. Let's increase the width of the scrollbar a bit. To do this, go to the ScrollBox.
The parameter we need is called ScrollBarThickness. Let's set the width to scrollbar = 12. The
strip has become wider.
Let's do the last test. Let's put the number of players = 4. Launch.
The ScrollBar is not displayed because the total table height is less than 300.